---
layout: post
title:  "Some LDAP Basics"
date:   2015-12-19 09:23:07
categories: ldap
---

It doesn't happen to me very often, but every now and again I run into an LDAP
problem. It usually shows up as I can't log into a system that everyone knows
authenticates against the LDAP server. Or, even rarer, I'm building something
that authenticates against, or takes configuration from, an LDAP server.

For some reason, at smaller companies, LDAP often falls between the cracks.
There is not enough related work that anyone is really good at it. When that
happens, I usually find it's easier to just do some troubleshooting, and then
approach the people with the adminsitrator passwords with the exact adjustments
that need to be made.

Once when I started at a new job, I couldn't log into a specific company
website. Everyone knew it was LDAP authentication, but no idea why it wasn't
working for me.

I got the LDAP settings from the website administrator and started querying the
LDAP server directly:

{% highlight bash %}
ldapsearch -x -H ldaps://192.168.0.1:783
{% endhighlight %}

That gave me a big list of users from the company LDAP database. I compared my
user to a working user, identified the difference and got the LDAP
administrator to make an adjustment.

When you are trying to configure a service to authenticate against an LDAP
server, it will frequently ask you for a base DN. An LDAP database is organized
into a tree structure. The base DN is just a specification of a node in the
tree to start querying from. In order to test that the base DN is working, you
can add it to the LDAP search query:

{% highlight bash %}
ldapsearch -x -H ldaps://192.168.0.1:783 -b "dc=acmeco,dc=com"
{% endhighlight %}

It is also possible your LDAP server is locked down and you can not connect
without authenticating. This is most common when dealing with an
ActiveDirectory LDAP server.

{% highlight bash %}
ldapsearch -x -H ldaps://192.168.0.1:783 -b "OU=Users,OU=Vancouver,DC=Jokers,DC=com" -Duser@joker.com -W
{% endhighlight %}

The -D parameter specifies the user name to use for connecting to the server,
-W means prompt for a password.

The value associated with the -D parameter will most likely look like this when
connecting to a non-AD server:

{% highlight bash %}
ldapsearch -x -H ldaps://192.168.0.1:783 -b "ou=People,dc=acmeco,dc=com" -D"uid=tk,ou=People,dc=acmeco,dc=com" -W
{% endhighlight %}

